The library component type in the SharePoint Framework (SPFx) enables you to have independently versioned and deployed code served automatically for the SharePoint Framework components with a deployment through an app catalog. Library components provide you an alternative option to create shared code, which can be then used and referenced cross all the components in the tenant.

You can create a library component solution by selecting **Library** as the **Component Type** when creating new projects with the SPFx Yeoman generator.

Library components have following characteristics:

- You can only host one library component version at the time in a tenant.
- You can deploy and host library components in the tenant app catalog or the site app catalog.

You can reference library component in the SharePoint solution by defining the dependency in the **package.json** file. The bundling process detects this dependency and adds it as to the consuming component's manifest. This dependency will then be detected by the SharePoint Framework at runtime and load the library before loading the component's bundle.


## How to consume a third-party SPFx library (for local testing)

1. Run `gulp bundle --ship` from the root directory of library solution. a simple `gulp build` not work.
    
2. Run `npm link` from the root directory of library solution. In this case, it would be from the **corporate-library** folder.
    
3. Right after creating the symbolic link to your new SPFx library component, don't forget to run at least once `gulp build`. Compile your library component at least once in order to be able to import it as a module into a different project. Remember that the **package.json** says that `"main": "lib/index.js"`, so that location needs to exist before any **import** attempt.
    
4. This will create a local npm link to the library with the name, which is provided in the **package.json**.
    
5. Create a web part project in a **separate project folder, so not in the library project folder structure**, following the instructions from [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/web-parts/get-started/build-a-hello-world-web-part#to-create-a-new-web-part-project). Name your web part **CorporateWebPart**.
    
6. From the root of the new web part folder, run the command `npm link corporate-library`
    
7. This will create a symbolic link to that locally built library in to the web part and will make it available to your web part.
    
8. Open the web part solution in your preferred editor and navigate to **src/webparts/corporateWebPart/CorporateWebPartWebPart.ts**
    
9. Add an import to refer to your library:
    
    TypeScriptCopy
    
    ```typescript
    import * as myLibrary from 'corporate-library';
    ```
    
10. Change the `render()` method as follows:
    
    TypeScriptCopy
    
    ```typescript
    public render(): void {
      const myInstance = new myLibrary.CorporateLibraryLibrary();
    
      this.domElement.innerHTML = `
      <div class="${ styles.corporateWebPart }">
          <div class="${ styles.container }">
          <div class="${ styles.row }">
              <div class="${ styles.column }">
              <span class="${ styles.title }">Welcome to SharePoint!</span>
              <p class="${ styles.subTitle }">Customize SharePoint experiences using Web Parts.</p>
              <p>${myInstance.getCurrentTime()}</p>
              <a href="https://aka.ms/spfx" class="${ styles.button }">
                  <span class="${ styles.label }">Learn more</span>
              </a>
              </div>
          </div>
          </div>
      </div>`;
    }
    ```
    
    Notice that we're creating a new instance of the library, and then refer to the `getCurrentTime()` method to retrieve the current time string from the library.
    
11. Test your web part by launching the local workbench and add the web part to the page:
    
    ConsoleCopy
    
    ```bash
    gulp serve
    ```


## How to deploy and consume a third-party SPFx library from tenant App Catalog

Read more...

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/library-component-overview
