# Install development toolchain prerequisites

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/set-up-your-development-environment#install-development-toolchain-prerequisites

The SharePoint Framework development and build toolchain leverages various popular open-source tools. While most dependencies are included in each project, you need to install a few dependencies globally on your workstation.

Set up Development Environment: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/set-up-your-development-environment

`npm install gulp-cli yo @microsoft/generator-sharepoint --global`

## Install Gulp

Gulp is a JavaScript-based task runner used to automate repetitive tasks. The SharePoint Framework build toolchain uses Gulp tasks to build projects, create JavaScript bundles, and the resulting packages used to deploy solutions.

## Install Yeoman

Yeoman helps you kick-start new projects, and prescribes best practices and tools to help you stay productive. SharePoint client-side development tools include a Yeoman generator for creating new web parts. The generator provides common build tools, common boilerplate code, and a common playground website to host web parts for testing.

## Install Yeoman SharePoint generator

The Yeoman SharePoint web part generator helps you quickly create a SharePoint client-side solution project with the right toolchain and project structure.

## Trusting the self-signed developer certificate

Once a project has been created with the Yeoman generator for the SharePoint Framework, execute the following command from within the root folder of the project.

`gulp trust-dev-cert`

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/set-up-your-development-environment#trusting-the-self-signed-developer-certificate
