https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/extensions/overview-extensions

You can use SharePoint Framework (SPFx) Extensions to extend the SharePoint user experience. With SPFx Extensions, you can customize more facets of the SharePoint experience, including notification areas, toolbars, list data views, and forms. SPFx Extensions are available in all Microsoft 365 subscriptions for production usage.

SPFx Extensions enable you to extend the SharePoint user experience within modern pages and document libraries, while using the familiar SPFx tools and libraries for client-side development. Specifically, the SPFx includes four extension types:

- **Application Customizers**: Adds scripts to the page, and accesses well-known HTML element placeholders and extends them with custom renderings.
- **Field Customizers**: Provides modified views to data for fields within a list.
- **Command Sets**: Extends the SharePoint command surfaces to add new actions, and provides client-side code that you can use to implement behaviors.
- **Form Customizer**: Provides a way to associate and override default new, edit and view form experience of list and libraries with custom forms by associating component to content type .

You can build extensions alongside common scripting frameworks, such as Angular and React, or to plain JavaScript projects. For example, you can use React along with components from Office UI Fabric React to create experiences based on the same components used in Microsoft 365.

## Getting started with SPFx extensions for SharePoint Online

https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/spfx-03-getting-started-with-spfx-extensions-for-spo/

SPFx extensions provide a safe way to extend and customize SharePoint Online experiences without impacting the improvements which Microsoft provides to the user interface. In classic SharePoint user interface was often modified by fully overriding the out of the box experience. This, however, blocked any new features from being deployed and therefore caused maintenance and operational challenges for customers, which caused significant operational challenges and reduction of the value provided by the platform.

As part of the introduction of SharePoint modern experiences, Microsoft also introduced the SPFx extensions as an option to safely extend SharePoint Online in future proven techniques. There are quite a few different extension options available, enabling significant extensibility options across SharePoint experiences.

Key difference between extensions and web parts in the SharePoint is that the web parts are designed to be added on the pages by the content editors using the web part picker and you can configure them based on your business needs. SPFx extensions however are added on the UX by using the automation in the SPFx packaging and they cannot by default be configured by content editors.