https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/use-aadhttpclient

When building SharePoint Framework solutions, you might need to connect to an API secured by using Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). SharePoint Framework allows you to specify which Azure AD applications and permissions your solution requires, and a global or SharePoint administrator can grant the necessary permissions if they haven't yet been granted. By using the **AadHttpClient**, you can easily connect to APIs secured by using Azure AD without having to implement the OAuth flow yourself.
## Web API permissions overview

Azure AD secures a number of resources, from Microsoft 365 to custom line-of-business applications built by the organization. To connect to these resources, applications must obtain a valid access token that grants them access to a particular resource. Applications can obtain an access token as part of the [OAuth authorization flow](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-protocols-oauth-code).

Client-side applications that are incapable of storing a secret, such as SharePoint Framework solutions, use a specific type of OAuth flow named [OAuth implicit flow](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-dev-understanding-oauth2-implicit-grant).

Developers building client-side solutions are responsible for implementing authorization by using the OAuth implicit flow in their application. In SharePoint Framework solutions, that's already done as part of the framework through **MSGraphClient** and **AadHttpClient**, both of which are introduced in SharePoint Framework v1.4.1.

Developers building a SharePoint Framework solution that requires access to specific resources secured with Azure AD list these resources along with the required permission scopes in the **solution manifest**.

## **SharePoint Online Client Extensibility Azure AD Application**

All permissions are granted to the whole tenant and not to a specific application that has requested them. When the administrator grants a specific permission, its added to the **SharePoint Online Client Extensibility** Azure AD application, which is provisioned by Microsoft in every Azure AD and which is used by the SharePoint Framework in the OAuth flow to provide solutions with valid access tokens.


## Request permissions to an Azure AD application

To the `solution` property, add the `webApiPermissionRequests` property that lists all the resources and corresponding permissions that your solution needs.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/spfx/use-aadhttpclient#request-permissions-to-an-azure-ad-application


> [!NOTE]
> No matter if the administrator denies or approves the requested permissions, the solution can be deployed and used on sites. When building solutions that require additional permissions, you should never assume that the requested permissions have been granted.


